When working with time series
data in CrateDB, visualization
is a key aspect that aids in
understanding the patterns and
trends in your data.
One of the most popular tools
for this purpose is Grafana,
which provides a powerful and
intuitive platform for creating
and sharing dashboards.
In combination with CrateDB's
robust handling of time series
data, Grafana allows you to
create dynamic visualizations
that can provide valuable
insights, making it easier to
analyze and interpret your data.
To visualize your data in
Grafana, you'll first need to
set up a data source.
Select the PostgreSQL type as
CrateDB is compatible with the
PostgreSQL wire protocol.
Next, enter the necessary
parameters for your database.
This includes information such
as the host, database name,
user, and password.
This process connects Grafana to
your database, allowing it to
retrieve and display your data.
Now let's see how it works in
practice.
1. Open Grafana and navigate
to connections, then data
sources.
2. This lists all data
The connection to CrateDB is
established via the PostgreSQL
wire protocol.
3.
The connection details contains
the host URL, database name,
username, and password.
The parameters depend on whether
you are connecting to a CrateDB
cloud instance or local
instance.
4. The TLS/SSL mode is set to
verify full for a CrateDB Cloud
cluster.
5. Finally, we can test the
connection to ensure that
Grafana can communicate with
CrateDB and save the connection
configuration.
Now we are ready to explore an
example dashboard and the
queries used to create it.
This is the example dashboard
for the weather data.
The first panels tell us how
many entries are in the data
set.
How many cities are covered and
when the first and last
measurements took place.
If we go to Inspect > Query and
move to the Query tab, we can
see which query is used to
generate this information.
In the first panel we show the
number of measurements as a
count of all time stamps and the
number of cities as a count of
distinct locations.
The table on the dashboard tells
us for each location what was
the highest recorded temperature
and when this temperature was
recorded.
Check the query that generates
this data.
In the SELECT statement.
We use the max aggregation
function to find the highest
temperature and max_by to find a
timestamp for this value.
The results are also grouped by
location.
The graph next to the table
tells us how the interpolated
temperature compares to the real
values.
It is a common problem when
dealing with time series data to
handle missing values.
Such occurrences are common,
perhaps due to a sensor
malfunction or disconnection.
To address this, the missing
values need to be filled in.
CreateDB can employ another
useful tool, Window functions
paired with the IGNORE NULLS
feature.
Within a common table
expression
we utilize window functions to
spot the next and prior non null
temperature recordings and then
compute the arithmetic mean to
bridge the gap.
You can see how the query looks
in the query window.
The next graphs show rolling
averages.
They are crucial in time series
analysis because they help
smooth out short term
fluctuations and reveal
underlying trends by averaging
data points over a specified period.
If you again check the query
window for this graph, you can
see the query for computing
rolling averages.
Rolling averages are computed
for all metrics temperature,
humidity and wind speed by using
the window of the last 10 and 20
readings.
Last but not least, in CrateDB
you can effectively query
geospatial data and this is
shown in the last piece of this
dashboard.
The map shows all weather
stations that are within a
radius of 1000 kilometers from
Berlin.
Let's check the query itself
that produces the data to show
points on the map.
We need latitude and longitude
information from each point
which is easy to get due to
existing scalar functions in
CrateDB.
In the WHERE clause, we use the
distance function to filter only
those points that satisfy our
condition.
The result illustrates four
locations.
With this, we are closing our
overview on time series
visualization.
You have learned how to use
Grafana with CrateDB to query,
visualize and further analyze
your time series data.